# BigData

## Summary

These days, social media has become a powerful tool that drives trends and popularity to a great extent. Instagram alone currently has over one billion active users. There is great potential for increasing reach, popularity, and engagement by optimizing this market. Travel posts on Instagram allow users to discover new destinations around the world through their stunning visuals and scenery. Our goal is to leverage this market by developing a tool that will identify key likings that coincide with a user's individual interests, empowering them to discover new and exciting travel destinations. By extracting key features from a dataset of Instagram posts, a model is built to recommend new landmarks to discover and travel from a user’s input on preference and interest. Our dataset comes from Proceedings of The Web Conference (WWW '20), ACM, 2020, provided by Seungbae Kim. This dataset classified influencers into nine categories related to beauty, family, fashion, fitness, food, interior, pet, travel, and others. This dataset contains 300 posts per influencer so there are over 10 million Instagram posts where each influencer is categorized based on the metadata of their posts. Each post metadata file is in JSON format and contains information such as caption, user tags, hashtags, timestamp, sponsorship, likes, comments, etc. Given this massive amount of data, preprocessing is required to extract relevant information. All in all, we considered only the metadata of travel influencers and ended up with around 70,000 post metadata, from which we also extracted pertinent fields such as post id, location name, location id, hashtags, number of likes and the list of users who commented whether they liked the post or not. With these specific features, we can map whether a location is a hotpot. As such, users are able to find compelling travel destinations in a large corpus of posts using a recommendation system. A recommendation system can provide suggestions that users might not have initially thought to look for themselves. By using content-based filtering, we will be able to recommend locations that are catered to the user’s interests. We will be using the Pearson correlation coefficient content-based algorithm to recommend hotspots locations to users based on other similar locations the user has positively rated. Additionally, collaborative filtering addresses some of the limitations of content-based filtering by detecting similarities between users and travel destinations simultaneously. We will be using a Latent Factor collaborative filtering algorithm to further optimize our recommendations. With such features, we wish to create a recommendation system for potential travel destinations to allow users to be exposed to information about a particular location as much as possible based on their personal interests.

## Acknowledgements

 - [Instagram Influencer Dataset](https://sites.google.com/site/sbkimcv/dataset)
